Jayanta Mukhopadhyay
Professor
 jay@cse.iitkgp.ernet.in
91-3222-283484

The primary area of research is image and video processing. Some of the research problems in these areas, presently being pursued, are development of image and video processing algorithms in the compressed domain, gait analysis, image inpainting, satellite image processing, distributed video coding, robot navigation, document image processing, techniques for application in health care and medical informatics, etc. He also works in digital geometry and its application in developing image processing algorithms. The other areas of interest include assistive technology, cognitive processing, computational phylogenetics and bioinformatics.


















































































Centre of Excellence in robotics 
SRIC, IIT KHARAGPUR
Cooperative multi - UAV exploration
SRIC, IIT KHARAGPUR
Cuff-less estimation of blood pressure using photoplethysmography for early assessment of hypertension and cardiovascular disease in Rural Population 
MHRD
Development of a Remote Healthcare Delivery System
IoTimize LLC
Development of low cost wearable sensor harness-based remote monitoring system for sick patients under five years age
MHRD
Development of OCR and PDF viewer 
ARC Document Solutions India Pvt. Ltd.
Effective Drug Repurposing Through Literature &amp; Patent Mining, Data Integration &amp; Development of Systems Pharmacology Platform
MHRD
Expansion of telemedicine project in Tripura
Webel Electronic Communication Systems Ltd,
Predicting Cancer treatment outcomes of lung and colo-rectal cancer by modeling and analysis of anatomic and metabolic images 
MHRD
Research and development in the area of information in health care and medical informatics
Various Govt. and Private Agencies
Resilence, recovery and re-integration of psychological health in young adults
MHRD
Robo-soccer research by Kharagpur Robot Soccer Students Group 
SRIC, IIT KHARAGPUR
Robot as a social assistance and robotic framework for exploring rugged and potentially hazardous terrain 
SRIC, IIT KHARAGPUR
Signals &amp
 systems for life science
MHRD
Whole cell modeling and simulation in bacterium escherichia coli (SGIGC)
SRIC, IIT KHARAGPUR













Dr Arunava Biswas
Medical Informatics – Ph.D.
Raj Bhagath Pudi
Video Coding – Ph.D.
Saikat Basu
Medical Imaging and Image Processing – Ph.D.
Soumyadeep Dey
Image Processing – Ph.D.
Soumabha Bhowmick
Robotics and computer vision – Ph.D.
Bijju Kranthi Veduruparthi
Computer Vision – Ph.D.
Nandedkar Amit Vijay
Image and video processing – Ph.D.
Anup Kumar Roy
Medical Embedded Systems  – Ph.D.
Shashaank M A
Image Processing – Ph.D.
Jit Mukherjee
Image Processing and data analytics – Ph.D.
Aritra Mahapatra
Bioinformatics and image processing – Ph.D.
Sudipta Ghosh
Embedded Systems and Medical Instrumentation – Ph.D.
Tushar Dilip Mungle
Discrete geometry – Ph.D.
Himadri Sekhar Bhunia
Object Tracking and Formation Contro – Ph.D.
Jayasree Saha
Image Processing  – Ph.D.
K Sai Ram
Image processing and robotics – MS
Romil Roy
Computer Science with Psychological Applications - MS
Chaudhari Ushasi Subhasis Sucharita
Image Processing – MS
M Sai Phani Kumar
Image Processing – MS
Dipannita Podder
Image Processing – MS
Ayan Chakraborty
Biomedical signal processing  - MS
Ankita Saha 
Natural Language Processing – MS












































Fellow of INAE
2009
Huboldt Research Fellow
2001
INSA Young Scientist
1992






































