Debdeep Mukhopadhyay
Associate Professor
debdeep@cse.iitkgp.ernet.in
91-3222-282352
http://www.iitkgp.ac.in/department/CS/faculty/cse.iitkgp.ac.in/~debdeep/
"At IIT Kharagpur, under the theme of Secured Embedded Architecture Laboratory (SEAL), we have been working for around last 8 years on several aspects on Hardware Security. The laboratory has produced several PhD students on the topics of Hardware Design of Complex Cryptographic hardware on FPGAs (Elliptic Curves and Pairings), Side Channel Attacks (Power, Faults, and Cache analysis on ciphers), Boolean Functions for Cryptography to resist side channel analysis (like Power and Fault Analysis). There are also large number of graduated Master of Science students, who have worked in the area of Elliptic Curve Hardware for FPGAs. At present there are registered around 12 students working for their PhD students and Master of Science working on several topics of Hardware security, encompassing light weight cryptography, power attacks, fault and micro-architectural attacks, design of Physically Uncloneable functions (PUFs), design and protection against Hardware Trojans. The laboratory also has one Post-Doctoral researcher who is a PhD from NTU-Singapore, and is collaborating on the topics of Hardware Security."






























Hardware Security in the Context of a Connected World: Threats and Mitigations
BRNS, DAE, MUMBAI
Indigenous design methodologies for elliptic curve cryptography on FPGs
Directorate of extramural research &amp; intellectual property rights (ER&amp;IPR;), DRDO
nformation Security Education and Awareness (ISEA) Project Phase-IIÂ 
Department of Electronics &amp
 Information Technology
Next generation secured internet of things (SGDRI)Â 
SRIC, IIT KHARAGPUR
Securing internet-of-things using unconventional cryptographic techniquesÂ 
Wipro Limited







Sarani Bhattacharya
Cryptography and Architecture Security – Ph.D.
Debapriya Basu Roy
Cryptography – Ph.D.
Urbi Chatterjee
Hardware Security – Ph.D.
Sikhar Patranabis
Cryptography – Ph.D.
Souvik Sonar
Cryptography – Ph.D.
Manaar Alam
Machine Learning in Security/Cryptography – Ph.D.
Brojo Gopal Sapui
Cryptographic Implementations – Ph.D.
Sayandeep Saha
Formal Methods in Cryptography – Ph.D.
Rajat Sadhukhan
Cryptography – Ph.D.


















IAS Young Associate

INAE Young Engineer

Indo-USSTF Fellowship

INSA Young Scientist

ISA TechnoInventor Award









