Debasis Samanta
Associate Professor
dsamanta@iitkgp.ac.in 
91-3222-282334
http://www.nid.iitkgp.ernet.in/DSamanta/
I have developed a methodology so that underprivileged people (such as primary-level school children and teachers, framers, shopkeepers, rickshaw pullers, domestic helpers, porters, etc.) in India can retrieve their information from the Internet. To
realize this, I have proposed the multi-modal interaction mechanism: text, speech and icon. With the text based interaction, English illiterate people can access Internet in their own mother languages. With speech-based interaction, language illiterate
people can interact to Internet with their speeches. Icon-based interaction has been devised for people, who can not read/write and even communicate with speech. With this interaction, users input their requirement by selecting icons (graphical symbols),
and results are furnished in visual forms. A user interface based on the proposed mechanism can be seen at http://www.nid.iitkgp.ernet.in/Bharati . I have proposed indexing mechanisms to retrieve unimodal and multimodal biometric data at a faster rate with a higher degree
of accuracy.
A number of automatic software testing methodologies based on UML models have been proposed. The model-based testing technique outperform the code-based techniques  in several aspects.
I have proposed a number of text entry mechanisms for text entry in the majority of Indian languages. Also, I have proposed an novel method of word prediction in Indian languages.
I have proposed a new methodology to apply biometric data to cryptographic application. The proposed methodology is suitable for data storage in distributed environment such as Cloud. Also, using biometric data of users I have developed accurate, efficient and robust authetication protocol and multiparty authentication for a shared resource have been introduced first time.
Presently, I am working on hands-free touch-free next generation man-machine interaction, in particular suitable for people with special needs. To do this, I propose to augment brain-computing interaction into the huamn-computer intercation strategy in several applications like e-learning, mental workload modeling, etc.










Virtual Labs Phase IIÂ 
MHRD, Department of Higher Education, NMEICT, New Delhi






Sreeja S R
Human Computer Interaction – Ph.D.
Anushri Saha
Brain Computing Interface – Ph.D.
Arpita Chaudhuri
Big Data Analysis – Ph.D.
Nirendu Konar
Data Analytics in Management – Ph.D.








Microsoft Valued Professional







